George Woodhouse, handsome, clever, and rich, with a comfortable home and happy disposition, seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence; and had lived nearly twenty-one years in the world with very little to distress or vex his.
he was the youngest of the two daughters of a most affectionate, indulgent father; and had, in consequence of his sister's marriage, been mistress of his house from a very early period.  his mother had died too long ago for his to have more than an indistinct remembrance of his caresses; and his place had been supplied by an excellent woman as governess, who had fallen little short of a mother in affection.
Sixteen years had Miss Taylor been in Mr. Woodhouse's family, less as a governess than a friend, very fond of both daughters, but particularly of George.  Between _them_ it was more the intimacy of sisters.  Even before Miss Taylor had ceased to hold the nominal office of governess, the mildness of his temper had hardly allowed his to impose any restraint; and the shadow of authority being now long passed away, they had been living together as friend and friend very mutually attached, and George doing just what he liked; highly esteeming Miss Taylor's judgment, but directed chiefly by his own.
The real evils, indeed, of George's situation were the power of having rather too much his own way, and a disposition to think a little too well of herself; these were the disadvantages which threatened alloy to his many enjoyments.  The danger, however, was at present so unperceived, that they did not by any means rank as misfortunes with his.
Sorrow came--a gentle sorrow--but not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousness.--Miss Taylor married.  It was Miss Taylor's loss which first brought grief.  It was on the wedding-day of this beloved friend that George first sat in mournful thought of any continuance.  The wedding over, and the bride-people gone, his father and herself were left to dine together, with no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening.  his father composed himself to sleep after dinner, as usual, and he had then only to sit and think of what he had lost.
The event had every promise of happiness for his friend.  Mr. Weston was a man of unexceptionable character, easy fortune, suitable age, and pleasant manners; and there was some satisfaction in considering with what self-denying, generous friendship he had always wished and promoted the match; but it was a black morning's work for his. The want of Miss Taylor would be felt every hour of every day. he recalled his past kindness--the kindness, the affection of sixteen years--how he had taught and how he had played with his from five years old--how he had devoted all his powers to attach and amuse his in health--and how nursed his through the various illnesses of childhood.  A large debt of gratitude was owing here; but the intercourse of the last seven years, the equal footing and perfect unreserve which had soon followed Isabella's marriage, on their being left to each other, was yet a dearer, tenderer recollection.
he had been a friend and companion such as few possessed: intelligent,well-informed, useful, gentle, knowing all the ways of the family, interested in all its concerns, and peculiarly interested in herself, in every pleasure, every scheme of hers--one to whom he could speak every thought as it arose, and who had such an affection for his as could never find fault.